DOCSP-41137: Count Documents (#4)
mongodb/docs-kotlin-sync: source/read/count.txt

.. _kotlin-sync-count:

===============
Count Documents
===============

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

.. facet::
   :name: genre
   :values: reference

.. meta::
   :keywords: number, amount, estimation, code example

Overview
---------

In this guide, you can learn how to retrieve accurate and estimated counts of the
number of documents in a collection.

.. _kotlin-sync-accurate-count:

> 

Reviewer: S: not necessary, but it might be helpful to use one of the Atlas sample datasets for the code examples on this page and introduce it here (similar to the [C++ count documents](https://preview-mongodbnorareidy.gatsbyjs.io/cpp-driver/DOCSP-40801-count/read/count/) page). This could help make the current code examples a little more specific and would provide an output

Retrieve an Accurate Count
--------------------------

Use the ``countDocuments()`` method to count the number of documents that are in a
collection. To count the number of documents that match specified search
critera, pass a query filter to the ``countDocuments()`` method.

.. To learn more about specifying a query, see :ref:`kotlin-sync-specify-query`.

Count All Documents
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To return a count of all documents in the collection, call the ``countDocuments()`` method
with no arguments, as shown in the following example:

.. code-block:: kotlin

   collection.countDocuments()

Count Specific Documents
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To return a count of documents that match specific search criteria, specify your query
in the ``countDocuments()`` method, as shown in the following example:

.. code-block:: kotlin
   
   collection.countDocuments(eq("author", "Leslie"))

Customize Count Behavior
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``countDocuments()`` method accepts optional parameters in the form of a

> ``CountOptions`` object, which represents options you can use to configure the count

Reviewer: Q: how do you set these options - by specifying fields of a `CountOptions` object? Might be good to clarify that

Author: Can add some clarifying wording.

operation. If you don't specify any options, the driver does not customize the count
operation.

The following table describes the options you can set to customize ``countDocuments()``:

.. list-table::
   :widths: 30 70
   :header-rows: 1

>    * - Property

Reviewer: S: "Field" or "Option" might be better words than "Property" here

     - Description

   * - ``comment``
     - | A comment to attach to the operation.
   
   * - ``skip``
     - | The number of documents to skip before returning results.

   * - ``limit``
     - | The maximum number of documents to count. Must be a positive integer.

   * - ``maxTime``
     - | The maximum amount of time to allow the operation to run, in milliseconds.

>    * - ``collection``
>      - | An instance of ``Collation``.

Reviewer: Q: should this say "collation" instead of "collection"? Also, you could make the description a little more specific:
```suggestion
   * - ``collection``
     - | The collation to use for the operation.
```

   * - ``hint``
     - | Gets or sets the index to scan for documents.

> 

Reviewer: S: I think it would be helpful to add a code example here that passes an options argument

.. _kotlin-sync-estimated-count:

Retrieve an Estimated Count
---------------------------

> You can get an estimate of the number of documents in a collection by calling
> the ``estimatedDocumentCount()`` method. The method estimates the amount of

Reviewer: S: to match the syntax of the accurate count section:
```suggestion
Use the ``estimatedDocumentCount()`` method to retrieve an estimate of the number of documents in a collection. The method estimates the amount of
```

database from the :atlas:`Atlas sample datasets </sample-data>`. To learn how to create a
free MongoDB Atlas cluster and load the sample datasets, see the
:atlas:`Get Started with Atlas </getting-started>` guide.

.. _kotlin-sync-accurate-count:

Retrieve an Accurate Count
--------------------------

Use the ``countDocuments()`` method to count the number of documents that are in a
collection. To count the number of documents that match specified search
critera, pass a query filter to the ``countDocuments()`` method.

.. TODO: To learn more about specifying a query, see :ref:`kotlin-sync-specify-query`.

Count All Documents
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To return a count of all documents in the collection, call the ``countDocuments()`` method
with no arguments, as shown in the following example:

.. io-code-block::

   .. input::
      :language: kotlin

      print(collection.countDocuments())

   .. output::
       :visible: false

       21349

Count Specific Documents
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To return a count of documents that match specific search criteria, specify your query
in the ``countDocuments()`` method. The following example prints a count of all documents

> in the ``movies`` collection with a ``year`` field value equal to ``1930``:

Reviewer: S: to avoid "with":
```suggestion
in the ``movies`` collection that have a ``year`` field value equal to ``1930``:
```
